# maximumLineLength

    "maximumLineLength": {
        "value": 80
    }

We should have a line limit for consistency. Long lines make
code harder to read and are usually indicative of poor
quality code. Also, since 80-character lines has been a
common standard across many languages for so long, many
developers have optimized their development workflow to use
80-character code editor windows and panes. It's incredibly
useful for being able to view multiple buffers side by side
in either your editor or terminal. Writing code within 80
characters is not hard. People have been doing it
effectively for decades. Furthermore, research also suggest
that the optimum line length for reading text is between 50
and 60 characters.


    "maximumLineLength": {
        "allowUrlComments": true
    }

Many URLs are longer than 80 characters long. Breaking them
across multiple lines doesn't make sense because they no
longer can easily be copied and pasted. Ideally

If you have a URL that is longer than 80 characters, you can
use a URL shortener like http://t.uber.com/


    "maximumLineLength": {
        "allowUrlComments": false
    }

Like lines of code, comments are also harder to read and may
extend beyond the edges of a programmer's code editor
windows/panes if they are too long.


    "maximumLineLength": {
        "allowRegex": false
    }

If a regex is longer than 80 characters, it is too long to
understand. No Regex should ever be this long. If you have a
long Regex that you got from somewhere, it is recommended
that you break it up over several lines with comments like
the one on this page for detecting UTF-8:

http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-forms-utf-8.en.php
