# func-names

    "func-names": 2

This rules requires you to name every function. The purpose
of forcing you to always name every function is two-fold.
First, this produces much more readable stack traces, since
anonymous function calls require you to go to the source
code and figure out what a function is trying to do. Naming
the function makes it clear what it is trying to do. Second,
naming your functions, makes it easy to pull out the
function from where is is being called, thereby keeping
indentation levels and line lengths low.

One thing to keep in mind with this rule is that named
function expressions are not hoisted into the current scope.
For example, in the following line of code only `foo` will
be available in the top-level scope, and `bar` will only be
available within its own scope.

    var foo = function bar() {};

Furthermore, when you write inline functions (which are
oftern anonymous functions), those functions are function
expressions, not function declarations. What this means is
that in a test file, it is perfectly acceptable to do the
following since the function expressions with name `t` do
not collide in the same scope as the token `test`:

    var test = require('tape');

    test('foo', function t() { /* test foo */ });
    test('bar', function t() { /* test bar */ });
    test('baz', function t() { /* test baz */ });

If appropriate, you can also name those function expressions
more explicitly, like `tFoo`, `tBar` and `tBaz`, but this is
not necessary.

In the case of anonymous callback functions used for the
sole purpose of handling the first error argument, before
calling another function with the remaining arguments, you
can name it something like `handleError` or you can even use
a helper function like the following to wrap the error if
you find yourself writing lots of `handleError` callback
functions in the same file:

    function wrapError(callbackFn, nextFn) {
        return function handleError(err) {
            if (err) {
                return callbackFn(err);
            }
            var args = arguments.slice(1);
            args.push(callbackFn);
            nextFn.apply(null, args);
        }
    }

Overall, this rule that requires that all functions be named
may same tedious at first, but it almost invariably forces
you to refactor a lot of your code for the better, since it
prevents you from abusing lambdas. If you encounter a use
case where you think it is particularly challenging to
satisfy this rule, feel free to open up an issue, and we'll
help you figure out how refactor your code.

[Official `func-names` ESLint Rule Documentation][func-names-docs]

[func-names-docs]: https://github.com/eslint/eslint/blob/master/docs/rules/func-names.md
